We've got an example of some
auto -rotating announcements.
I don't know about you, but that kinda
stuff just distracts me immediately.
And so for users that have cognitive
disabilities, seizure risk,
it's not just annoying or distracting,
it can actually be harmful.
So for this, we are going to
implement reduce motion on this.
So I'm gonna go over to our example.
That is in our product header.
So we have this banner element,
it's got a should animate flag so
that we can turn that on and off.
Let's go up here to our banner element.
So we already have some of
the code we need in here.
I think if we had a way to call
the userPrefersReducedMotion,
we'd be able to control this.
So, we do happen to have a hook in here.
This is kind of a neatly packaged way to
call this use prefers reduced motion code,
so we already have it in here.
This is a React version, so
it uses React useEffect that
will call a bit of code after
the page loads as a side effect, and
it will kinda allow us to call window
APIs and things in the browser.
So this is matching this
prefersReduceMotion noPreference.
We are keeping it in a state
variable of prefersReduceMotion,
and then returning that, so
I have that variable to hold on to, so
I can check what's going on.
And a hook like this is useful because I
can call it from various parts of my site
or my application, I don't have to
include this literally in every place.
So it's got that change listener, it also
cleans up after itself when it's done.
So let's pull this in.
In our product header, we need that hook.
So I'm gonna import, and is it a default?
Yes.
Use prefersReduceMotion, wow, thank you
VS Code, I went and found that for me.
So where we wanna call this is any
place that we're calling animate,
o there's two places.
There's an initial call with
the setTimeout, and then on useEffect,
it will just keep on running.
So I think what we wanna do,
I'm actually, for time and
energy purposes, let's look at
the fully implemented version.
So we can add a dependency on
our useEffect when we call this.
So if userPrefersReduceMotion,
we'll make sure we have that,
and then in animate,
I'm going to go and
check whether that is true or false.
So if the user doesn't, hasn't said that
they prefer reduced motion, animate away.
Do your thing.
So let's go see, maybe I can implement
this on our other one, other page.
So, on animate,
we have this userPrefersReducedMotion,
that variable is being called up here,
so we pull in that hook,
stored in a variable, it already has
its own state-managed internally.
So now I have this
userPrefersReduceMotion, and
I can call it.
Let's see if I really need to add this
to our dependencies, see what happens.
I think it might have just worked.
I'm gonna open the console,
make sure that we don't have any errors.
But it was animating before, now it's not.
So let's go turn off our setting,
see if it starts.
There it goes again.
Sweet.
So that is a very happy way of
responding to PrefersReducedMotion.
But use it for things like
animating carousels like this one.
We saw one on the SoundCloud logged-out
home page that had an auto-rotating
carousel that would benefit from this.
So depending on how, like where
is the animated code coming from?
You can control it with CSS or JavaScript.